=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

virt-scenario - Create XML config and prepare host for a specific scenario

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<virt-scenario>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<virt-scenario> prepare a libvirt XML guest configuration and the host to run a customized guest.
Idea is to use multiple B<templates> and concatenate them to create the
expected Guest XML file. If Host need a custom setting it will be done in second phase.

Customization to match a specific scenario is not graved in stone. The idea is to
prepare a configuration which should improved the usage compared to a basic setting.
This will B<NOT guarantee> that this is perfect.

B<virt-scenario> is only available in interactive mode.

=head1 CONFIGURATION

User can set some parameter in the B</etc/virtscenario.yaml>. This will
override the scenario setting (but will display the recommended setting).

B</etc/virthosts.yaml> is used to define an Hypervisors list mostly for secure VM
configuration.


# WARNING: INCORRET PARAMATERS WILL LEAD TO BAD VM CONFIGURATION
# Dont change the section name
# This will overwrite scenario settings....
config:
  - path: /etc/virtscenario
  - vm-config-store: ~/.local/virtscenario/
emulator:
  - emulator: /usr/bin/qemu-system-x86_64
input:
  - keyboard: virtio
  - mouse: virtio
architecture:
  - arch: x86_64
STORAGE_DATA:
# some options are only available with qcow2 format and
# will be ignored in case of any other image format
  - disk_type: file
#  - disk_cache: none
  - disk_target: vda
  - disk_bus: virtio
  - path: /var/livirt/images
  - format: qcow2
# host side: qemu-img creation options (-o), qemu-img --help
  - unit: G
  - capacity: 20
  - cluster_size: 2M
  - lazy_refcounts: on
# preallocation: off, metadata (qcow2), falloc, full
  - preallocation: off
  - compression_type: zlib
  - encryption: off

=head1 TEMPLATES DEFINITION

All templates are in the python lib virt-scenario directory.

=head1 POSSIBLE SCENARIOS

=over 3

=item computation

=item Desktop

=item Secure VM

=back

=head1 Interactive command

=head2 general configuration

=over 3
=item B<mode>: guest/host/both: choose what you would like to configure (default is both)

=back

=head2 Hypervisor configuration

=over 3
=item B<hvconf>: Load Hypervisor configuration

=item B<hvselect>: Set hypervisor for which VMs are configured

=item B<hvlist>: List available hypervisors

=back

=head2 Guest configuration

=over 3

=item B<name>: Define a name for the VM

=item B<vcpu>: Choose how many VCPU

=item B<memory>: Choose the Memory size (in GiB)

=item B<machine>: Select the Machine type (from a list)

=item B<bootdev>: Select the boot dev (from a list)

=item B<diskpath>: Directory where to store disk image

=item B<conf>: Path to disk image (with completion)

=back

=head2 Generate the XML configuration and prepare the host

=over 3

=item B<computation>: Create an XML configuration and host config to do computation VM

=item B<desktop>: Create an XML configuration and host config for Desktop VMU

=item B<securevm>: Create an XML configuration and host config for Secure VM 

=back

=head2 Other

=over 3

=item B<shell>: Execution of a system command

=back

=head1 AUTHORS CONTRIBUTORS

Written by Antoine Ginies

Joerg Roedel

=head1 CODE

L<https://github.com/aginies/virt-scenario>

L<https://github.com/aginies/virt-scenario/issues>

=cut
